Smip: reworking interrupt push/pop to a simpler version (#653)
riscv/riscv-fast-interrupt: src/aclic.adoc

 10       Reserved
----

[[smip, Smip]]
== Interrupt handler push and pop extension (Smip)

The interrupt handler push and pop extension adds automatic (partial) context save and restore behavior.
Interrupt handler latency and jitter are reduced by allowing the context save to happen speculatively in parallel with the vector table and handler fetch.

> NOTE: In Harvard architectures, the data bus is idle while the vector table and handler fetch are happening.

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: In Harvard architectures, the data bus may be idle while the vector table and handler fetch are happening.
```

NOTE: An explicit interrupt return instruction is included, rather than modifying the xret behavior,
so that the hart does not need to do bookkeeping whether it is in an interrupt or exception context.

It performs the following actions in order:

  * Restores registers x10-x15
  * Adjust the stack pointer to destroy the stack frame
  * Conditionally performs a stack pointer swap by executing cspspop sp
  * Executes an xret according to the current level

NOTE: As this instruction is intended to be executed at the end of the handler, interrupts are typically disabled during its execution.
It is however an implementation choice to perform tail-chaining to the next highest priority pending-enabled interrupt upon this instruction.

=== C interrupt handlers

When this extension is implemented, a compiler may assume for any interrupt handler defined with the interrupt attribute like

[source,c]
----
void interrupt_handler() __attribute__((interrupt));
----

that the registers x10-x15 have been saved.
Additionally, the compiler does not need to restore these registers.
Finally, it should generate an {ixpopret} instruction at the end of the function instead of an {xret}.

> 

Reviewer: That's going to get messy quickly. Not to mention that implementing trap handler in C will be impossible.

Better to do:
```
void interrupt_handler() __attribute__((interrupt("CLIC-something")));
```
or
```
void interrupt_handler() __attribute__((interrupt("CLIC-something"), prestacked("x10-x15")));
```
